Focus Group Feedback Re: Makerspace Challenge

The meeting began with Justin Sutherland presenting an overview of the
Makerspace Challenge which this year is asking engineering students to focus on
a Virtual Reality application that would help improve the patient experience
with Radiation and/or Chemo Therapy treatments.

A summary of key points from the discussion can be found below:

What could/should be considered:
Recognize that everyone’s experience and preferences are different depending on
many factors including age, stage of cancer, cultural background- any ability to
customize choices within program would be welcomed
The treatment phase of care is a time of high anxiety for patients and families-
any VR application should that calm and relaxing is the overarching theme
Keep visuals ‘centred’ – may induce nausea with a lot of eye/head movement
Possibly reducing nauseous sensations by instructing person to separate body and
mind- as your body would not be involved
Experience should be positive- connect with promoting efficacy of the treatment
Allow for ability to ‘save’ the program so that during next treatment- patient
could begin where they left off
Have different length of VR experiences so they are timed to the treatment
(e.g do not begin a 60 minutes VR experience if patient is beginning a 30 minute
radiation therapy treatment)
The impact of VR applications on health care team (set up, support etc.) needs
to be kept in mind.  These are very busy clinicians and use of VR technology
needs to be quick and easy.
Consider creating a virtual assistant to be there with patient (e.g. a companion
figure that ties into the healing journey)

What to avoid:
Highly stimulating, fast paced visuals
A lot of movement (e.g. waves) may induce nausea
Food related programs – anything that could cause an olfactory reaction
Significant interaction on behalf of the patient (radiation therapy requires
patient to have little/no movement, chemotherapy allows for some movement)
Do not assume dexterity (patients may have hand immobilized or have developed
neuropathies as a result of treatment)
Avoid applications with big learning curve (should be easy to do for those who
are not technologically savy)


Possible Conceptual Ideas
Focus on an experience (i.e. climbing Machu Pichu, journey in an air balloon,
walking on a beach)
Orchestra or live music performance (allowing for patient’s choice of music
genre)
Visual that accompanies patient music choice (e.g. butterfly floating through a
meadow to music of patients choice)
Incorporate pictures of patients choice into a VR environment (e.g. allow
pictures to populate frames in a museum, or in a nice home)
Mindfulness training/meditation
Walk through a museum viewing artwork
Experiences with an educational focus – e.g. historical telling of a story
Possibility of having 2 VR devices networked so a family member in a waiting
room can be part of patient’s VR experience

 
 
 
 
